Hello, Ubaldo Acosta greets you again, I hope
you're ready to start with this lesson
we're going to study the subject of
loops in Java are you ready let's go
loops in Java. Loops will allow us to
repeat a set of instructions a certain
numbers of times this will depend on a
condition which we must control in order
to stop the loop at some point otherwise
we could end up executing an infinite
loop and there for blocked execution of the
device that executes the loops the
condition to be fulfilled can be
determined by the user or by the program
according to the logic that has been
established
let's see below the elements of a loop
as we said a loop can be defined as a
structure that allows to repeat or
iterate a set of instructions or
sentences as we can see in the figure we
have the following elements we start the
cycle after that a condition to be
fulfilled may be true or false after
that a sentence or sentences to be
executed and the evaluation of the
condition again and the loop is repeated
if the condition was true again
otherwise it ends in addition we can
observe the following characteristics
the set of instructions must be finite
the number of times this set of
instruction is repeated must also be
finite, in some cases this number of
times will depend on explicit condition
and in others cases will depend on an
implicit condition a condition is
explicit when it depends only the
execution of the program itself without
the participation of the user likewise a
condition is implicit
when it depends only on the will of the
user and therefore the number of
iterations or repetitions of the cycle
could vary depending on the final decision
of the user within a loop you can go to
any sentence
including other loops this is
known as nested loops there are
different types of loops in Java such as
while, do-while and for we will see each
of them in more detail flowchart while
loop the while loop in Java is the most
fundamental to perform iterations
basically as we can see in the figure a
block of code is executed as many times
as the condition being evaluated is true
once the condition is false then the
iteration is completed the expression to
evaluate can be any value of type
boolean the while loop in Java if we are
going to use the while loop and repeat
only one line of code it's not mandatory
to use curly brackets but if the while
loop is going to execute more than one
code statement then it must have
curly braces because the condition of
the while loop is evaluated at startup
the code block to be repeated will not be
executed even once if this condition is
not met for this there is the do-while
loop that we will see next in the
exercises that we're going to develop
later we will implement the while loop